there's American need to be an empire we
have more troops in more places than any
Empire in the history of the world we
spent over six hundred billion on
defense and that's not including the
nukes taking care of veterans homeland
security when you add it all up it's
probably over a trillion to keep the
monsters away i'm wondering if we could
be just to save spending half as much
eisenhower warned when he was close to
the end of his second term like you are
now about the military-industrial
complex and it seems no president of
either party ever makes any progress on
that pushing back on that whatever
happened did you want to do that well
look I had keep in mind billet when i
came into office we had a hundred eighty
thousand troops just in Iraq and
Afghanistan now we probably have about
15,000 so that that's pretty big
we still spend a bunch of folks still
spend morale you know actually are
spending I think his has been steady e
here's what I'd say that humility and
foreign policy is is a useful trait
particularly in the Oval Office think
bad things happen around the world and
our natural instinct is we should do
something there are times where our
intervention makes a difference but
there are a lot of times where
the unintended consequences can result
in more problems when we intervene and
sorting out where those where those
issues play out is I think one of the
biggest challenges that any president
has my bias is that if it comes to
defending the American people against
al-qaeda ISIL somebody wants to blow up
a train station in midtown Manhattan
that I'm gonna go after them and I make
no apologies about it and I want a
vigorous military in place and when it
comes to maintaining a basic
international order so that a guy like
kim jongmin in North Korea doesn't
suddenly start holding all of Asia
hostage because he is building a bunch
of nuclear weapons and and feels free to
threaten everybody else it's important
for us to have alliances in place and to
be able to work on the international
scene and us having the most powerful
military on earth helps that happen
it helps check the impulses of some
other bad folks and and i will tell you
as somebody who has now served as
commander in chief for the last eight
years not only are the men and women in
uniform that I work with extraordinary
you know you meet 23 year olds who are
in charge of life and death missions and
maintaining billion-dollar pieces of
equipment and they just execute and do
it unbelievably well but what you also
discover is my top brass Joint Chiefs of
Staff they're not the chickenhawks who
are going around trying to get us into
every single War I
you know the the generals the Colonel's
that the commander's that I work with
they know that the wages of war and
they're actually pretty thoughtful about
it and typically in the Situation Room
they're the ones who are like well
before we go half-cocked on something
let's really think about this because
this is what would be involved and they
have seen what's what's involved because
most of them are people who were
fighting in Iraq and fighting in
Afghanistan and they know how hard these
environments are and and that no matter
how good our intentions a lot of times
it can go haywire
but having said all that I think we
should ever strength i think we should
have humility I think we have to
wherever possible work multilaterally
and not just unilaterally because if we
can't organize coalition's to do things
that means that maybe weren't we haven't
thought everything through having said
all that it turns out did is as flawed
as sometimes our foreign policy can be
or whatever blind spots we have we
really are the indispensable nation if
we if there is a typhoon that wipes out
someplace in Southeast Asia our military
is the only organization that has the
infrastructure to help those folks
quickly when a bola came out we actually
had to build the platform whereby
everybody else could even think about
bringing their doctors and nurses and if
you have a rogue nation that decided it
was going to you know take action that
that significantly threatened
a lot of people I'd want to know that
the US military was there and so and and
i can tell you setting aside our
military power there's not an
international meeting i go to in which
if we weren't sitting at the table
nothing to get done because for the most
part other countries don't have either
the capacity or the inclination and when
you've got a bunch of authoritarian
governments out there and at creeping
authoritarianism pulse around the world
we also are the ones who are pushing
back most effectively in perfectly but
most effectively against locking up
journalists and killing human rights
activists and making sure that poor
people get food and dealing with public
health crises I think it if you see the
world from my seat I won't sort of as
bad
assorted that the one thing I think is
important for progressives to guard
against is a tendency sometimes to not
fully appreciate
yeah that up that America has bad guys
and that Americans are pretty it is not
just a great nation in the sense that
it's powerful but that our values night
rnr ideals actually matter and we do a
lot of good around the world and there's
some things that we do that are either
ineffective or imperfect but there's a
lot to be proud of and there's a lot to
build on